README.md, before:

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes)

# serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes

This plugin allows you to add custom attributes to an existing CloudFormation-managed Cognito User Pool from serverless without losing all your users. At the time of writing (June 2018) CloudFormation doesn't know how to add custom attributes to a user pool without dropping and re-creating it, thus losing all your users.

This plugin also adds the specified attributes to a User Pool Client, giving that client read and write permissions for the new attribute.

# Requirements
- Node 8+
- serverless 1+

# Usage

Install `npm i serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes`, then add `serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes` to your serverless.yml `plugins` list.

```yml
plugins:
    - serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes

custom:
  CognitoAddCustomAttributes: 
    CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId"              # The key of the outputted UserPool Ref 
    CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId"  # The key of the outputted UserPoolClient Ref
    CustomAttributes: 
      - 
        AttributeDataType: String
        DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
        Mutable: True
        Name: "another" # this will end up being custom:another
        Required: False

# Only add this if not already outputting the Cognito User Pool and Client IDs, otherwise, refer to the existing outputs in the custom:CognitoAddCustomAttributes section
resources:
  Outputs:
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPool
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClient
```

# Details

1. Output your UserPoolId via `resources.Outputs`
2. Output your UserPoolClientId via `resources.Outputs`
3. Add `CognitoAddCustomAttributes` to `custom` with the following structure:
```yml
  CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "UserPool Output Key as a String"
  CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "UserPoolClient Output Key as a String"
  CustomAttributes:
    -
        AttributeDataType: String
        DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
        Mutable: True
        Name: "another"
        Required: False
```

Note: If you have multiple userPool-userPoolClients you can specify them as an array as well

Example:
```yml
plugins:
    - serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes

custom:
  CognitoAddCustomAttributes:
    -
      CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId"
      CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId"
      CustomAttributes:
        -
          AttributeDataType: String
          DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
          Mutable: True
          Name: "another" # this will end up being custom:another
          Required: False
    -
      CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId"
      CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId2"
      CustomAttributes:
        -
          AttributeDataType: String
          DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
          Mutable: True
          Name: "another" # this will end up being custom:another
          Required: False

resources:
  Outputs:
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPool
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClient
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId2:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClient2
```



The names of your attributes supplied here will appear as `custom:{name}` when deployed.

For more information on the schema of attributes see:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito-user-identity-pools/latest/APIReference/API_SchemaAttributeType.html

Commit message:

Changed plugin to make it usable without clientappid

README.md, after:

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes)

# serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes

This plugin allows you to add custom attributes to an existing CloudFormation-managed Cognito User Pool from serverless without losing all your users. At the time of writing (June 2018) CloudFormation doesn't know how to add custom attributes to a user pool without dropping and re-creating it, thus losing all your users.

This plugin also adds the specified attributes to a User Pool Client, giving that client read and write permissions for the new attribute.

This fork of the original repo was necessary cause i needed a quick way of adding only attributes to the user pool without user pool clients. With this fork you dont have to add UserPoolClient Refs in the custom section.

# Requirements
- Node 8+
- serverless 1+

# Usage

Install `npm i serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes-with-optional-client`, then add `serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes-with-optional-client` to your serverless.yml `plugins` list.

```yml
plugins:
    - serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes-with-optional-client

custom:
  CognitoAddCustomAttributes: 
    CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId"              # The key of the outputted UserPool Ref 
    CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId"  # The key of the outputted UserPoolClient Ref
    CustomAttributes: 
      - 
        AttributeDataType: String
        DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
        Mutable: True
        Name: "another" # this will end up being custom:another
        Required: False

# Only add this if not already outputting the Cognito User Pool and Client IDs, otherwise, refer to the existing outputs in the custom:CognitoAddCustomAttributes section
resources:
  Outputs:
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPool
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClient
```

# Details

1. Output your UserPoolId via `resources.Outputs`
2. Output your UserPoolClientId via `resources.Outputs`
3. Add `CognitoAddCustomAttributes` to `custom` with the following structure:
```yml
  CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "UserPool Output Key as a String"
  CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "UserPoolClient Output Key as a String"
  CustomAttributes:
    -
        AttributeDataType: String
        DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
        Mutable: True
        Name: "another"
        Required: False
```

Note: If you have multiple userPool-userPoolClients you can specify them as an array as well

Example:
```yml
plugins:
    - serverless-cognito-add-custom-attributes-with-optional-client

custom:
  CognitoAddCustomAttributes:
    -
      CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId"
      CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId"
      CustomAttributes:
        -
          AttributeDataType: String
          DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
          Mutable: True
          Name: "another" # this will end up being custom:another
          Required: False
    -
      CognitoUserPoolIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId"
      CognitoUserPoolClientIdOutputKey: "CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId2"
      CustomAttributes:
        -
          AttributeDataType: String
          DeveloperOnlyAttribute: False
          Mutable: True
          Name: "another" # this will end up being custom:another
          Required: False

resources:
  Outputs:
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPool
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClient
    CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClientId2:
      Value:
        Ref: CognitoUserPoolApplicationUserPoolClient2
```



The names of your attributes supplied here will appear as `custom:{name}` when deployed.

For more information on the schema of attributes see:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito-user-identity-pools/latest/APIReference/API_SchemaAttributeType.html
